(upbeat music)
All right, in this video,
we're gonna talk about using external modules
that have been open sourced and made available
to the community in your project
because most things that you do,
there's probably somebody else that has
already written something for that
and they are tested well, they're battle tested,
they're fast, things like that.
Almost always, you can go and reach
for some sort of utility library
or even an entire framework like React, or View, or Angular
to do what it is that you want.
I'm not gonna get a whole lot specific
about like, I'm gonna show you React ones,
or View ones, or something like that,
but I'm just gonna show you JavaScript modules
that are useful for whether you're doing
back-end or front-end programming.
So, what I wanna do first is open up your terminal.
I'm gonna go into the exercises folder
and let's make a directory called 80-npm modules.
We'll get into that.
And let's just do it completely from scratch.
So, we'll npn init nothing just to start it up
and we'll call npmmodules.
Good.
And you can see it's made us a directory
with a package JSON in there.
And then let's go ahead and install a couple
and just sort of start working with
the different ones that we want.
So, let's npm install a parcel-bundler
and we'll dash, dash capital D is the same thing
as dash dash save div, I like to do that
as a little bit of a shortcut.
We installed node modules, you'll see that
you actually get this folder that is called node modules
and inside of that folder, there's always gonna be
hundreds, if not hundreds of thousands of files
inside of there and that stresses some people out
'cause they aren't sure exactly what's going on there.
So if I open this up, take a look.
You'll see in here you have a node modules,
and look at it, holy!
So I installed one package and then
they went and installed what?
544 packages?
Like what's going on?
And what's really going on behind the scenes here
is that parcel has dependencies itself.
It has the little packages that it needs
in order for it to work and it may seem like a lot,
but a lot of these are just tiny, little packages
that do one thing and one thing well.
Which js, and we open that.
So hundred of lines of code, probably some internal
to the link that they have.
So, whatever is in this node modules folder,
don't stress about it.
There's gonna be hundreds of things in there.
It also look at quite large, like this is what?
65 megs, I just installed one thing.
And that's pretty common for tooling to have
lots of dependencies, 'cause they are doing
a lot under the hood.
It is totally fine to always delete your node modules folder
because you can always get it back
by simply type npm install.
The important thing is that you have a list of dependencies
that you want in your package JSON.
You should never ever modify code that is inside
your node modules, because it will be wiped out
at anytime and then the nmp install
will always bring that back.
Let's install a couple more.
I like to nmp install, I'm gonna bump up the font here.
One called faker, one called data-fns.
And you're gonna install multiple packages
just putting a space in between them.
Another one called await to js.
Another one called lodash and finally,
another one called axios.
And those are all regular dependencies
so there's no need to put save div on the end.
That installed much quicker than parcel.
You can see, that we've got all these dependencies in here.
Good.
Now, let's go and make a index.html.
Let's give ourselves an HTML base.
Script source.
To index.js.
Go ahead and make that index.js.
Console log, it works.
Like the good old days.
And I believe we can modify our package JSON
to take a start command.
I also will just run parcel index.html.
We'll also have the ability to add browserslist.
Just an array of last one chrome versions.
Npm start this sucker.
And it got one little bit of error here.
Enoent undefined.
That is I believe, this link to my CSS is incorrect.
It's gotta go up one more level.
Got a couple of errors here.
Unexpected token.
Angle bracket.
Let's try to run this as JavaScript.
Let's go to your package JSON.
That's been funky to me so I'm gonna just try
to delete some of the stuff.
Cache and dist.
Try it again.
There we go.
See, what I mean about these deleting
those folders sometimes?
That'll save you all the time in the world.
(laughs) All right.
So let's go through some of these different
packages that we have.
First one is that one I just forgot to tell you to install
and that's wait.
So, if we go to nmp.im/waait,
it will redirect you to nmpjs.org/package/wait
and this is the package that I told you about.
This is the wait function that we probably coded 10 times.
So, we can now install it as a package.
So nmp install, waait, W-A-A-I-T.
And then nmp start again.
Make sure you always start it up
and then I'll go into my index js
and we'll make an async function go.
And just console log Going.
Then, we'll go.
Let's check that out.
Going, good.
Now, I want to use this waait package.
And you can look in the docks,
it says import wait form waait.
So import wait from W-A-A-I-T.
And, you can name this whatever you want
because it's a named export.
Right below the going, we'll just await, wait,
200 milliseconds, console log ending.
Going, ending, going, ending, good.
So that's the most basic idea of what a package is,
is that even something as small as little function
that we could write over and over and over,
sometimes, it's helpful to have somebody else
deploy that thing to npm and you simply just nmp install it
and you are up and running without having
to worry about putting that in.
Quite honestly, that's why I made that package.
'Cause I use it quite a bit.
Now, next one is a faker.
Let's check out what faker is.
So we'll go to faker.
Faker.js generates massive amounts of data
in the browser in node js.
So, pretty simple how it works, is that
you can import faker and then there is faker name
and you can generate fake names, fake email address,
fake cards, and this is really helpful
if you're just trying to get some data
rather than sitting around and typing it.
Or if you're writing test and you wanna fill those tests
with a bunch of fake data.
So look at they've got, commerce,
company, database and date.
So, what we can do is import faker from faker.
And if you're not sure how to use it
and the docks don't necessarily tell you how to use it.
Because sometimes, you'll see this.
Var faker equals require.
And well, what does that mean?
You might see it something like this.
This is the older node.js syntax,
this is referred to as common js
and this is referred to as ECMAScript modules.
Node js is currently not phasing out,
but they have just implemented ES six or ECMAScript modules
in node, so, you probably won't see this very much
unless it is on a node js project.
So that's what that is.
If you ever do something like this,
you can simply just take the variable declaration
and make it import and then take the equals
and require and the open parenthesis
and then verbalize it with from
and then you can also take off that.
Well, let's just go ahead and console log faker
and see what we're working with here.
So there you go, faker.
And we got those random number, random uu ID, boolean,
a random boolean?
That's great.
Helpers, address, so let's just try.
Let's try a first name and last name.
So we'll just faker.name.firstName
and open it in a back text.
Back text, oh.
firstName.
A bit of a problem here..
Oh, I forgot to close my back text, there we go.
There we go, hello Pink, hello Parker, Hello Nedra,
Raven, Dee, Laney, you get the point, right?
It gives you a fake name every single time that you want.
There's all kinds of different values in there.
It would be kind of cool if you could import name
from faker, let's see if that works.
Sometimes, you're able to just import subsets of it.
Console log name.
Let's see.
Yeah, there we go.
So you can just import name and in that case,
you just import name.FirstName.
And you have access to all of the ones that you want.
So, lots of different fake data there,
I won't stay here and show you them all because (chuckles)
I think that's a little bit boring.
But you can kinda get the point.
It'd be kinda cool to generate an array of different names.
How would I do that, actually?
Okay, there doesn't seem to be like,
give me 10 faker names, if I put 10 in there.
Does that give me, no, it doesn't change what it is.
So how would I get 10 fake names?
I'll say const fakeNames is equal to array.from.
Remember we can pass it our from,
something with the length of 10.
And then the second argument is a map function
which we can just pass name.firstName.
Console log fakeNames.
There we go, look at a whole bunch of fake names.
If you wanted full names, you could pass
your own callback function.
And we get this return back text
firstName and then space do it again with the last name.
(laughs) Everyone's last name is Function, why?
Oh, I forgot to actually call the code.
There we go.
You get the point.
Looks pretty cool.
So, faker is a good one.
Next one I wanna show you, I'm gonna rid of all these
console logs, get rid of this go call as well.
Next one I wanna show you is date fns.
And let's take a look at datefns.
Some of these, you just have to go to the nmp
to look at the docs.
Some of these bigger ones will have their entire library
which you can work with, which is great.
And this is a really neat one.
So you import, they have all of these different methods
for working with it, and then it allows you
to format dates and work with dates, a much nicer way
than having to work with just the regular date library
that's built into the browser.
So, if we go here, we can click through
to the documentation.
I wanna say like, something minus three days
was how long ago?
Look for time ago.
Format distance.
It's called distance in words, if you have two dates
and you wanna know what the difference is
between those two dates, you can import formatDistance.
All right, let's try that.
So import formatDistance from date fns.
So if you've ever heard of people using moment.js,
before, this is the same thing as moment.js.
It's just a little bit more chunked up,
meaning that you don't have to import the entire library
in order to use one piece.
It will allow you just to pull a single piece
from that library, which is great.
So, we got here, formatDistance.
Take a look at their example here.
So maybe you wanna like tell somebody
and how long will that be.
So const diff.
And let's just console log the diff.
It says in about one hour so,
you can also do things like this.
New Date and new date 2020.
And it will tell you the difference
between those two is four months ago.
I guess if you wanted four months in the future,
you would switch them up.
formatDistance to now, that's more,
I guess, the more of the one that I just used
'cause new date will give you now.
Other formatting of the date.
So if you have a date and you wanna format it
in a very specific way, look at all,
this is like PHP, how is this?
They are really nice way to format the dates.
So let me just pick a random one.
If I wanna say January the 12th 2020,
what will, how would I do that?
So I need, let's bring it in here.
Const date is equal to new Date
and I want it to look like this.
Not specifically say that, but I wanted to say
give me the full month name, I wanna say the,
I wanna give it the full th and then 2020 after it.
So how would I do that?
Well, let's look here.
Format is the method, so go up here.
Format.
How does it work?
It takes a date, it takes a format,
and then there's some options,
weeksStartsOn, firstWeekContainsDate, things like that.
So, this will take a date or a number,
that's what the pipe means.
So, we'll say const formatted is equal to format,
we'll pass it the date, which is today.
And then it looks like we pass it a string, yeah,
a string of tokens, and these are all of those.
So, I want to find the month name in full.
January, so I need four Ls.
Then, can I just write the under it?
Let's see how far we got there.
So November, it's obviously not January one
I'm recording this and the, (laughs)
the gives me 157, that's not what we want.
How do you put
just regular English words?
Oh, if you want, you have to put them on single quotes.
So, I'm gonna use back text for this
and then in single quotes, I put the,
see if that works.
Yeah, November the, okay.
Now, I need the day of the month in th.
So look at the docs here.
First, second, third, fourth, oh it's quarter.
So we wanna find month, date of month,
do is this one.
So you could either have a single number,
a leading zero number or with the ordinal,
that's what that's called, st and th.
So, January the do.
And then we need the full year.
Our timezone, milliseconds, localize,
ISO, calendar year.
44, one.
Looks like just Y.
So LLLL the Y.
November the 21st, 2019.
Beautiful!
Looks like, I love that.
That's not doable in just regular JavaScript right now
so I always reach for this moment js.
Any time you have, anything to work with dates,
not just formatting dates, but also trying to figure out
if you're trying to compare two dates.
So if you've got two dates, you wanna compare isBefore,
isDate, isEqual, isFuture, isPast, isValid date,
oh, lightFormat.
Returns a formatted date string.
Unlike format, lightFormat doesn't locales
and outputs the most popular tokens.
Please note that lightFormat token's different
from moment js, blah blah blah.
Maybe, if you can get away with lightFormat,
it's probably gonna make your bundle size smaller
'cause it just does most popular ones.
Just cool.
Doesn't look like it does ordinals though,
which is what we needed there.
Min, max, you get the point.
There's all kinds of really interesting things
for working with dates.
Working with dates is very very hard.
And date functions makes it very easy.
Next one I wanna do is axios.
So axios is a library for working with,
basically, it's the same thing as fetch
but A, it has a bunch of nice, little defaults in it,
B, it doesn't have the weird double await
that our promises do, because of the JSON default.
And then also, it works in node js
at the time of recording, fetch is not available on node js.
You either have to polyfill it using like axios.
And there's all kinds of plugins for axios as well
for caching and things like that, which is pretty neat.
So, I'll show you how to use it real quick.
We import axios from axios.
And let's make a function called getJoke.
And we'll make that async.
And I'll say const, response is equal to await axios.get
and then, what is that?
Icanhazdadjoke.com.
And then I believe, the second argument is also for headers.
So how would I find that out?
There we go.
So, headers.
Lowercase headers.
And you needed the accept application json.
Then I'll just go ahead and console log that response
to see what we get and then we'll run getJoke on page load.
There we go.
We get, this is our response and the data is what we want.
It also gives you the headers, the config,
the entire request.
So, if you're also doing like some lower level
network stuff, you can use axios for that
or doing uploads, streaming uploads,
makes a lot of that sort of more advanced stuff passed
just doing a simple get request, it makes it really easy.
So in our case, we want data, so we could do
structure that data, and just console log data.
There we go, get our joke right back.
So, I can use fetch in most of my used cases
but anytime we're doing a little bit more advanced,
I reach for axios myself, big fan of it.
Next one we have is lodash.
Now, lodash is a utility library for working with arrays,
objects, and a couple other, kinda interesting things.
And I'm a big fan of lodash.
So I don't reach for it all of the time,
because in most cases, I can get away
with a map filter reduce, but there is many used cases
where I'll say, huh, this is gonna be really hard
or really complicated with a reduce function.
I'm just gonna reach for whatever the equivalent lodash is.
So, let's look at a random one, intersection.
What does this do?
If you've got two pieces of data and you want to know
what are the same values in them,
we can just import it.
So, import intersection
from lodash.
And now, we have this intersection example.
You see all their examples are underscore dot?
And that just assumes that you import the entire library.
We can just go ahead and import one method as we want,
just like we did with date functions.
So that is exactly what we want.
So let's go down here and we'll just say const
a is equal to I don't know, one, two, three, four,
five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10.
And we've got b, that will have
a whole bunch of other numbers.
So, five, three, eight, three, seven, 34, you get the point.
Now we wanna know what the the same numbers
that exist in both of these?
Okay well, I could run it, intersection of a and b.
Const sameValues is equal to,
console log, sameValues.
There we go, we get a new array of values
that exist in both of them.
So that's little one that I like to use.
There's also...
Deep clone.
Or clone deep.
So clone, we've already looked at,
we can use a spread, or object data sign,
but then, you can also do clone deep
and you can tell it how many levels deep
you would like to clone, so remember,
we talked about reference versus value,
that's really good, you can use,
there's the equal one.
And if you wanna check if two values, two objects
have equal values, remember I did this
const person1 is equal to name of wes
and person2, is equal to name of wes.
If we were to console log, person1 is equal to person2,
is that gonna be true or false?
It's gonna be false.
And why is that?
Well, because these are not the same object.
And if you want to know if all of the values inside
of an object are the same, then, we'd have to use equal.
So let's go ahead and import eq.
And we just use it, eq, person1, person2.
False.
Did we get the right method?
Oh, it looks like this performs triple equals to,
that's not what we want.
I believe they have another one that is equal.
Yeah, isEqual.
And that will check for the actual values.
That's what we want.
So, we change this import to not eq, but isEqual.
We go down here, isEqual.
And then that gives us true.
So I've had a couple of values on there
that will do a check of all of the values on it.
They also have this isEqualWith.
So like isEqual except it accepts a customizer
which invoked to compare value
if the customizer returns undefined.
Comparisons are handled by the method instead.
Interesting.
So, is isEqualWith an array, hello goodbye,
other, hi goodbye.
And the customizer is, does it say hi or hello.
Oh that's cool.
So you can check if they are the same
by giving it a regex.
I can't say I've had to do that before,
but put that in my (mumbles) for later.
I think what I'd recommend you is to spend
like an hour to two, and this might seem nuts,
but just go through and just read
what each of these wants to do,
because you're gonna run into issues while programming,
and just having a bit of a head space
as to what lodash does will just kinda put it in your head
and when you run into these problems,
you'll very quickly be able to solve them
because there's probably a lodash method for it.
Oh there's even like a difference.
There we go, difference.
I remember years ago, this is like, I don't know,
maybe eight years ago, I used difference
and I took an array of all my Twitter followers,
and then every 10 or 20 minutes,
I took another array of my Twitter followers,
and you could see who had unfollowed you,
and you could run the other ones to see who has followed you
which is kind of cool, and it would just give you
a list of who unfollowed and who followed you.
I don't think I could do that anymore
'cause it'll be too large.
But I think it'd be kinda interesting to check it as well.
Finally, the last one is this await to js.
And somebody showed me this when I was talking to them
about recording a video on the different ways
to handle an error and there's just one library that,
it allows you to handle errors a little bit differently.
So what I'm gonna do is we'll go to the top here,
import to from await to js.
And you notice here, we don't need to put .js
or path to anything of those.
They're simply just modules that have been npm installed.
That's another benefit to using this over,
like a parcel-bundler over something like
just a regular browser-based one.
So, let's make a function that resolves if your name is Wes
and errors if your name is anything else.
So, checkIfNameIsCool and in here,
we will take in their name and return a new promise.
We get another function, callback there,
that gives us resolve and reject.
And we'll say if the name is equal to Wes,
then, resolve, cool name and then otherwise, else,
or we can just return here, some people will return
on the same line as the resolve,
or they'll return on a new line, it doesn't really matter.
And then down here, we reject not a cool name.
It's yellin' at me here.
The promise rejection reason to be in error.
I think it expects you to do a new Error.
Bad Name.
And it's giving me here,
name is already declared in upper scope.
Let's say firstName.
Okay.
Now, I'm making a sync function called checkName
and we'll run that when the page loads.
And we'll say const nameDescripton is equal to await check
if nameIsCool, Wes.
Console log nameDescription.
Now, it says cool name.
Good, but what if I were to put in a name
that wasn't cool like Snickers?
And we get an error, uncaught in promise, error, bad name.
Okay, so how do we catch that?
Well, we could use any of the methods
that we learned earlier but what this await too does,
is you can wrap you promise base function into,
and what it will do is it will return a response
and let's just see what that response has.
See, this response is an array
and the first thing is an error
and the second thing is undefined,
and what if I make that Wes.
The first thing is null, and the second thing is cool name.
So what this does, is it always returns an array
and the first thing will be an error
and the second thing will be your resolve value.
So what you can do is you can destructure that response
into err and value or successValue
and then, we can do here, say if there's an error,
then, deal with it and then else,
let me just console log successValue.
Now, see, cool name, it works.
And if I were to change that back to snickers,
it handles in here.
So, console log the error.
There we go, error, bad name
and it gives you the actual error.
So that's kind of a cool way to deal with things
where if you wanna deal with the error right up front
before you keep going in the function,
then all you need to do is to wrap it
in a to function and that will return an array
of either an error or the regularly resolved value.
So, those are just a couple of my favorite npm package,
I could go on for hours showing you different ones.
There's literally probably hundreds of thousands
of different packages out there, I recommend
that you just take a look at npm search
for top npm packages but mostly what happens is,
you run into a problem and you start to think,
huh, there's probably already a package for this,
let me go and take a look and see if that's there.